README.md, before:

Code to find patent triangulation models.
This builds on outputs from the upstream preprocessing steps in **https://github.com/dreisigmeyer/preprocessing**, and additional files creates by other code.


## Getting the data
All of the required input data will be placed into the **in\_data** directory.
Here is a list of the files and their formats.

- `assg_yr_firmid.csv`: Hand mapping of name to firmid.
Can be updated each year automatically (see below on how this is done), or by hand.
SQL table structure is  
~~~
CREATE TABLE assg_name_firmid (
    assg_name TEXT NOT NULL,
    year INTEGER,
    firmid TEXT NOT NULL,
    UNIQUE(assg_name, year, firmid)
);
~~~
- `assignee_76_16.csv`: Created upstream.
SQL table structure is  
~~~
CREATE TABLE assignee_name_data (
    xml_pat_num TEXT NOT NULL,
    assg_seq INTEGER NOT NULL,
    grant_yr INTEGER NOT NULL,
    assg_name TEXT NOT NULL
);
~~~
- `assignee_info.csv`: File created from CSV files output from the assignee_prep2 preprocessing phase.
The assignee_prep2 CSV files are placed in **in\_data/assignee\_out\_data**.
These will be preprocessed (see below for how to do this).
SQL table structure is  
~~~
CREATE TABLE assignee_info (
    prdn TEXT NOT NULL,
    assg_seq INTEGER NOT NULL,
    assg_type TEXT,
    assg_st TEXT,
    assg_ctry TEXT
);
~~~
- `iops.csv`: CSV file created by the assignee_prep2 preprocessing phase.
This will need some preprocessing (see below for how to do this).
The preprocessed file has the SQL table structure
~~~
CREATE TABLE iops (
    prdn TEXT NOT NULL,
    assg_seq INTEGER NOT NULL,
    UNIQUE(prdn, assg_seq)
);
~~~
- `name_match.csv`: Created upstream and may need to be preprocessed (see below for how to do this).
SQL table structure is  
~~~
CREATE TABLE name_match (
    xml_pat_num TEXT NOT NULL,
    uspto_pat_num TEXT NOT NULL,
    assg_seq INTEGER NOT NULL,
    grant_yr INTEGER NOT NULL,
    zip3_flag INTEGER,
    ein TEXT NOT NULL,
    firmid TEXT NOT NULL,
    pass_num INTEGER NOT NULL,
    cw_yr INTEGER NOT NULL
);
~~~
- `prdn_eins.csv`: File created from `name_match.csv` (see below for how to do this).
SQL table structure is  
~~~
CREATE TABLE ein_data (
    prdn TEXT NOT NULL,
    grant_yr INTEGER NOT NULL,
    assg_seq INTEGER NOT NULL,
    ein TEXT NOT NULL,
    firmid TEXT NOT NULL,
    cw_yr INTEGER NOT NULL,
    pass_num INTEGER NOT NULL
);
~~~
- `prdn_metadata.csv`: CSV file output from the carra_prep2 preprocessing phase.
This will need some preprocessing (see below for how to do this).
SQL table structure is  
~~~
CREATE TABLE prdn_metadata (
    prdn TEXT NOT NULL,
    grant_yr INTEGER NOT NULL,
    app_yr INTEGER NOT NULL,
    num_assg INTEGER,
    us_inv_flag INTEGER
);
~~~
- `prdn_piks.csv`: File created from `carra_for_triangulation.csv` (see below for how to do this).  SQL table structure is  
~~~
CREATE TABLE pik_data (
    prdn TEXT NOT NULL,
    grant_yr INTEGER NOT NULL,
    app_yr INTEGER NOT NULL,
    inv_seq INTEGER NOT NULL,
    pik TEXT NOT NULL,
    ein TEXT NOT NULL,
    firmid TEXT NOT NULL,
    emp_yr INTEGER NOT NULL
);
~~~

Some of the input data files need to be preprocessed due to changes in file formats or files created.
These are run 'by hand' since they have upstream input files, which may change their format.
The user is required to preprocess those to make sure they match the formats given above.
As an example, the following commands were used for the run that occured in 2019-2020.

 
    awk -F'|' -v OFS=',' '{print $1,$4}' iops.csv | sort -T ./ -u > iops_prdn_assg_seq.csv  
    # carra_for_triangulation  
    tail -n +2 carra_for_triangulation.csv > holder.csv  
    awk -F',' -v OFS=',' '{print $10,$6,$5,$8,$3,$4,$7,$1}' holder.csv > prdn_piks.csv
    rm holder.csv  
    # Put prdn_piks.csv into in_data directory  
    # Need to create firmid in name_match file and remove last two columns:  
    awk -F, -v OFS=, '{ print $1,$2,$3,$4,$5,$6,$12,$8,$9}' name_match.csv > name_match_HOLD.csv  
    mv name_match.csv name_match.csv_SAVED  
    tail -n +2 name_match_HOLD.csv > name_match.csv  
    awk -F',' -v OFS=',' '{print $1,$4,$3,$6,$7,$9,$8}' name_match.csv > prdn_eins.csv  
    rm name_match_HOLD.csv  
    # Put prdn_eins.csv into in_data directory  
    # Put name_match.csv into in_data directory  
    # Extend assg_yr_firmid.csv to new year  
    awk -F',' -v OFS=',' '{ if ($2==2015) {print $1,2016,$3"\n"$1,2017,$3}}' assg_yr_firmid.csv > holder.csv  
    cat holder.csv >> assg_yr_firmid.csv  
    rm holder  
    # Create assignee_info.csv with structure PRDN,ASSG_NUM,ASSG_TYPE,ST,CTRY:  
    `awk -F'|' -v OFS=',' '{print $1,$6,$7,$9,$10}' assignee_out_data/*.csv > assignee_info.csv  
    # Cut last column off prdn_metadata.csv then do  
    sort -T ./ -u prdn_metadata.csv > holder  
    mv holder prdn_metadata.csv  


## Setting up the Python environment
The code was run with a standard Anaconda Python 3 environment (https://www.anaconda.com).


## Running the code
This can be run by issuing the following command outside of this directory  
`python -m triangulation -a assignee_76_16.csv`  
where **assignee_76_16.csv** is the assignee file.
The years may change on the file name.
The flag `-a` (or `--assignee_years`) is used on the command line to specify the assignee file.
This file name will likely change each year.


## The individual pieces of the code
The general methodology used here is to first generate SQLite3 code using Python, and then to run the SQLite3 code to find the triangulation models.
The Python code to generate each model is located in **src/[abcdef]_models** in the file **create\_[abcdef]\_models.py**.
The generated SQLite3 code is placed into **src/tmp** as **create\_[abcdef]\_models.sql**.


The directory **src/shared\_code** contains code that is called by multiple SQLite3 code generating Python files.
This includes files to collect together shared column names (**column\_names.py**), input and output file names (**file\_names.py**), and shared table names (**table\_names.py**).

Commit message:

Included a dummy config file for the F model stadardized name hand corrections.

README.md, after:

Code to find patent triangulation models.
This builds on outputs from the upstream preprocessing steps in **https://github.com/dreisigmeyer/preprocessing**, and additional files creates by other code.


## Titled Information
There is a dummy file **f_model_standard_name_corrections.cfg_TITLED_DUMMY** included in this directory.
This will need to be copied into **cfg_files/TITLED**, renamed **f_model_standard_name_corrections.cfg_TITLED**, and modified.
The file will contain titled information and should be appropriately protected.
The **.gitignore** files do that.
If you modify those files, make sure you know what you are doing.
The **f_model_standard_name_corrections.cfg_TITLED** file will contain hand corrections of the standardized firm names in the F model SQL code that is generated by this Python module.


## Getting the data
All of the required input data will be placed into the **in\_data** directory.
Here is a list of the files and their formats.

- `assg_yr_firmid.csv`: Hand mapping of name to firmid.
Can be updated each year automatically (see below on how this is done), or by hand.
SQL table structure is  
~~~
CREATE TABLE assg_name_firmid (
    assg_name TEXT NOT NULL,
    year INTEGER,
    firmid TEXT NOT NULL,
    UNIQUE(assg_name, year, firmid)
);
~~~
- `assignee_76_16.csv`: Created upstream.
SQL table structure is  
~~~
CREATE TABLE assignee_name_data (
    xml_pat_num TEXT NOT NULL,
    assg_seq INTEGER NOT NULL,
    grant_yr INTEGER NOT NULL,
    assg_name TEXT NOT NULL
);
~~~
- `assignee_info.csv`: File created from CSV files output from the assignee_prep2 preprocessing phase.
The assignee_prep2 CSV files are placed in **in\_data/assignee\_out\_data**.
These will be preprocessed (see below for how to do this).
SQL table structure is  
~~~
CREATE TABLE assignee_info (
    prdn TEXT NOT NULL,
    assg_seq INTEGER NOT NULL,
    assg_type TEXT,
    assg_st TEXT,
    assg_ctry TEXT
);
~~~
- `iops.csv`: CSV file created by the assignee_prep2 preprocessing phase.
This will need some preprocessing (see below for how to do this).
The preprocessed file has the SQL table structure
~~~
CREATE TABLE iops (
    prdn TEXT NOT NULL,
    assg_seq INTEGER NOT NULL,
    UNIQUE(prdn, assg_seq)
);
~~~
- `name_match.csv`: Created upstream and may need to be preprocessed (see below for how to do this).
SQL table structure is  
~~~
CREATE TABLE name_match (
    xml_pat_num TEXT NOT NULL,
    uspto_pat_num TEXT NOT NULL,
    assg_seq INTEGER NOT NULL,
    grant_yr INTEGER NOT NULL,
    zip3_flag INTEGER,
    ein TEXT NOT NULL,
    firmid TEXT NOT NULL,
    pass_num INTEGER NOT NULL,
    cw_yr INTEGER NOT NULL
);
~~~
- `prdn_eins.csv`: File created from `name_match.csv` (see below for how to do this).
SQL table structure is  
~~~
CREATE TABLE ein_data (
    prdn TEXT NOT NULL,
    grant_yr INTEGER NOT NULL,
    assg_seq INTEGER NOT NULL,
    ein TEXT NOT NULL,
    firmid TEXT NOT NULL,
    cw_yr INTEGER NOT NULL,
    pass_num INTEGER NOT NULL
);
~~~
- `prdn_metadata.csv`: CSV file output from the carra_prep2 preprocessing phase.
This will need some preprocessing (see below for how to do this).
SQL table structure is  
~~~
CREATE TABLE prdn_metadata (
    prdn TEXT NOT NULL,
    grant_yr INTEGER NOT NULL,
    app_yr INTEGER NOT NULL,
    num_assg INTEGER,
    us_inv_flag INTEGER
);
~~~
- `prdn_piks.csv`: File created from `carra_for_triangulation.csv` (see below for how to do this).  SQL table structure is  
~~~
CREATE TABLE pik_data (
    prdn TEXT NOT NULL,
    grant_yr INTEGER NOT NULL,
    app_yr INTEGER NOT NULL,
    inv_seq INTEGER NOT NULL,
    pik TEXT NOT NULL,
    ein TEXT NOT NULL,
    firmid TEXT NOT NULL,
    emp_yr INTEGER NOT NULL
);
~~~

Some of the input data files need to be preprocessed due to changes in file formats or files created.
These are run 'by hand' since they have upstream input files, which may change their format.
The user is required to preprocess those to make sure they match the formats given above.
As an example, the following commands were used for the run that occured in 2019-2020.

 
    awk -F'|' -v OFS=',' '{print $1,$4}' iops.csv | sort -T ./ -u > iops_prdn_assg_seq.csv  
    # carra_for_triangulation  
    tail -n +2 carra_for_triangulation.csv > holder.csv  
    awk -F',' -v OFS=',' '{print $10,$6,$5,$8,$3,$4,$7,$1}' holder.csv > prdn_piks.csv
    rm holder.csv  
    # Put prdn_piks.csv into in_data directory  
    # Need to create firmid in name_match file and remove last two columns:  
    awk -F, -v OFS=, '{ print $1,$2,$3,$4,$5,$6,$12,$8,$9}' name_match.csv > name_match_HOLD.csv  
    mv name_match.csv name_match.csv_SAVED  
    tail -n +2 name_match_HOLD.csv > name_match.csv  
    awk -F',' -v OFS=',' '{print $1,$4,$3,$6,$7,$9,$8}' name_match.csv > prdn_eins.csv  
    rm name_match_HOLD.csv  
    # Put prdn_eins.csv into in_data directory  
    # Put name_match.csv into in_data directory  
    # Extend assg_yr_firmid.csv to new year  
    awk -F',' -v OFS=',' '{ if ($2==2015) {print $1,2016,$3"\n"$1,2017,$3}}' assg_yr_firmid.csv > holder.csv  
    cat holder.csv >> assg_yr_firmid.csv  
    rm holder  
    # Create assignee_info.csv with structure PRDN,ASSG_NUM,ASSG_TYPE,ST,CTRY:  
    `awk -F'|' -v OFS=',' '{print $1,$6,$7,$9,$10}' assignee_out_data/*.csv > assignee_info.csv  
    # Cut last column off prdn_metadata.csv then do  
    sort -T ./ -u prdn_metadata.csv > holder  
    mv holder prdn_metadata.csv  


## Setting up the Python environment
The code was run with a standard Anaconda Python 3 environment (https://www.anaconda.com).


## Running the code
This can be run by issuing the following command outside of this directory  
`python -m triangulation -a assignee_76_16.csv`  
where **assignee_76_16.csv** is the assignee file.
The years may change on the file name.
The flag `-a` (or `--assignee_years`) is used on the command line to specify the assignee file.
This file name will likely change each year.


## The individual pieces of the code
The general methodology used here is to first generate SQLite3 code using Python, and then to run the SQLite3 code to find the triangulation models.
The Python code to generate each model is located in **src/[abcdef]_models** in the file **create\_[abcdef]\_models.py**.
The generated SQLite3 code is placed into **src/tmp** as **create\_[abcdef]\_models.sql**.


The directory **src/shared\_code** contains code that is called by multiple SQLite3 code generating Python files.
This includes files to collect together shared column names (**column\_names.py**), input and output file names (**file\_names.py**), and shared table names (**table\_names.py**).
